# Frontend - App - Src

## Description

This is the part of the code where we spend most of our time developing the frontend application.

It therefore contains the directories and basic elements generated by Vue.JS.

### Keycloak

In order to link our frontend to SSO, an **additional file** has been added: [**`keycloak.js`**](./keycloak.js). This JavaScript file is an [**adapter provided by Keycloak**](https://www.keycloak.org/securing-apps/javascript-adapter) that allows us to **link** the **SSO** instance to our **frontend** so that the latter can redirect and use SSO for user authentication.

**In** the main script [**`main.js`**](./main.js), we therefore had to **add a section** to require users to authenticate within the application.

## How to use

Each directory has its own purpose:

- [`assets`](./assets/): stores **CSS and media** elements (*images, videos, etc.*) **referenced within the application**. They are stored here in order to separate the business logic from the elements it manipulates in the display.
- [`components`](./components/): contains **all components** used and reusable within the application.
- [`router`](./router/): contains the application page indexer. It determines the paths leading to application pages and the corresponding "page" component.
- [`views`](./views/): the **application views** which, even though they are components themselves, are distinguished from other components by their main purpose: to be a **page accessible via** the content of **[`router`](./router/)**.
